Hello and Thank you for Downloading my Program.



This program is designed to generate random Pokemon with random movesets following the options given.



I shall go through each of the tabs one by one and explain what each of the options do.



For extra help watch the videos.



It should only take up to 10 seconds to generate (Should be a lot less),

If it is not there is likely an error, which you should report.





Tab 1 - Home/Run Program: 



When you click the button it will generate a team using the given options.
It will set it to your clipboard like you have clicked Ctrl+C, or clicked copy.
To paste click Ctrl+V or right-click then Paste. 

The text box will tell you when the team has been sent to your clipboard.















Tab 2 - Pokemon Options:



This tab allows you to set options for which Pokemon you would like to use.


The first option uses smogon tiers, allowing you to pick a base tier,
then if you would like only that tier, tiers higher than it and it,
or tiers lower than it and it.


Examples:


Uber and Lower and LC and higher will include all Pokemon.
Uber and Higher will only include Uber Pokemon.
OU and Lower will include all Pokemon not in Ubers
NU and Higher will include the tiers;
NU, NUBL, RU, RUBL, UU, UUBL, OU and Ubers.



The second option allows you to do a mono - Something:

You can do a;
Mono Type
Mono Generation
Mono Egg Group (The 3 water groups have been combined for simplicity)
Mono Colour
and Mono Legendaries


The 2 options combine, so for example if you do, Mono Gen 1 and Ubers and Higher,
Then your team will be full of Mewtwo and its two mega evolutions.

If you choose 2 groups and there are no valid Pokemon (Such as Ditto Egg Group,
And Uber and Higher) then your team will be picked from all Pokemon, and an error,
will be shown in the Text Box.



Tab 3 - Item Options:



This tab lets you choose what items your Pokemon can be given.



The first option can let you stop your Pokemon be given smogon's list of useless,
items. This does not mean bad items, but items that don't do anything competitively,
such as fossils, evolution items, and poke balls.





The second option lets you choose what tiers of smogon items you would like to use.
Tier 1 is smogon's "Popular Items"
Tier 2 is smogon's "Items"
Tier 3 is smogon's "Usually useless items"



PLEASE NOTE THAT CHANGING THIS WILL NOT STOP USELESS ITEMS OR POKEMON SPECIFIC
ITEMS FROM BEING ON YOUR POKEMON, YOU MUST DISABLE THEM SEPARATELY!





The Third option lets you disable Pokemon specific item.
This includes items such as Silvally's memories, Red Orb, Mega stones and soul dew.


The final Option lets you Force an item onto a Pokemon.
It check if what is in the FIRST box is valid and will give the item if it is.
Only write in the FIRST box.
Leave the default text if you don't want any forced move.
It must be a valid move, and spelt correctly.
You can select whether to give it to one Pokemon or all in the dropdown menu.
If the move is not found it will give an error in the SECOND box.











Tab 4 - Ability Options:



The first Option lets you Force an ability onto a Pokemon.
It check if what is in the FIRST box is valid and will give the ability if it is.
Only write in the FIRST box.
Leave the default text if you don't want any forced ability.
It must be a valid ability, and spelt correctly.
You can select whether to give it to one Pokemon or all in the dropdown menu.
If the ability is not found it will give an error in the SECOND box.




The second option lets you choose what tiers of smogon abilities you would like to use.
This list can only be found when making a balanced hackmon team,
but it includes abilities illegal there.

Tier 1 is smogon's "Abilities"
Tier 2 is smogon's "Situational Abilities"
Tier 3 is smogon's "Unviable Abilities"


Tab 5 - Move Options:


The first option lets you choose which Z-Moves you would like to include,
in a normal moveset - Does not need Z-Crystal

All means it includes Signature and Not Signature ones
Only Signature means Only Signature Ones - Only the one that have a set Power,
Not Signature have a set Power of 1
None means no Z-Moves can be in a moveset


The second Option lets you Force a move onto a Pokemon.
It check if what is in the FIRST box is valid and will give the move if it is.
Only write in the FIRST box.
Leave the default text if you don't want any forced move.
It must be a valid move, and spelt correctly.
You can select whether to give it to one Pokemon or all in the dropdown menu.
If the ability is not found it will give an error in the SECOND box.


This can be used to force a Pokemon to have hazard removal




The third option lets you choose what tiers of smogon moves you would like to use.

Tier 1 is smogon's "Moves"
Tier 2 is smogon's "Usually useless moves"


The fourth option lets you choose what kind of moves you would like to use


All will include all moves,
Only Attacking (No Z-Moves) will only use attacking moves and no status moves,
Only Status (No Z-Moves) will only use status moves and no attacking moves.


The 2nd and 3rd option will not let any Z-moves generate.





The final option will check if the Pokemon is holding a typed Z-crystal (Not signature),
and force it to be useful by setting a move to be the same type.
It could be attacking or status.
It will not look at Move Tier options or types of move (Status or Attacking option).
This can be used to guarantee a Z-Move can be used if you give a Z-Crystal to a pokemon,
In the forced item option (See above).







Tab 6 - Other Options;


This is for options that do not fit anywhere else


The first option lets you choose whether the generator should randomize shinies,
if no it will look at the second option to see if it should be shiny or not.



The final option lets you select level range (Inclusive) for it to randomize,
if you want it to use only a select level then set both to the same number.
If there is an error happens then it will use level 1 to 100.

An error can be caused by these conditions;
Using a level less than 1,
Using a level higher than 100,
The first number being higher than the second,
Not using whole numbers,
Using letters and
Not filling in both boxes and possibly some more.




